= passphrase

Passphrase is a command line tool written in Ruby for generating passphrases
using the {Diceware(TM) method}[http://world.std.com/~reinhold/diceware.html].

The act of rolling dice is simulated by requesting random numbers from
{www.random.org}[http://www.random.org]. If a network error occurs or a request
fails, the program gracefully degenerates to using Ruby's global +rand+ method,
which is based on the Mersenne Twister algorithm.

Words in the generated passphrase are selected from either the Diceware list or
the alternate list edited by Alan Beale, referred to as the _Beale_ list.  The
choice of list for each word is made randomly. Both lists are embedded into the
code as compressed, base64 encoded strings. No external files are referenced.

== Generating a passphrase

The command line interface is simple. You have the option to specify the number
of words in the generated passphrase within the range of 3 to 10. The default
is 5. One _odd_ character is automatically mixed into one of the words
comprising the passphrase. You can forgo mixing if desired.

  Usage: passphrase [options]
  Options:
    -n, --num-words NUMBER           Desired number of words (3..10), default 5
    -x, --[no-]mix                   Mix in odd character, default mix
    -h, --help                       Show this message
    -v, --version                    Show version

== Examples

  $ passphrase --num-words 3
  unmixed phrase => shot elm mild
  odd character  => !
  passphrase     => shot e!m mild

  $ passphrase --num-words 4 --no-mix
  passphrase => humus smooth persia mz

If you don't like a generated passphrase, repeat the command.

== Contributing to passphrase
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Edmund Sumbar. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

